( e) Logarithms
(i) Relationship between indices and logarithms, e.g. y = 10\(^k\) implies log\(_{10}\)y = k.
(ii) Basic rules of logarithms
(iii) Use of tables of logarithms and anti-logarithms.
(f) Sequence and Series
(i) Patterns of sequences.
(ii) Arithmetic progression (A.P.) Geometric Progression (G.P.)
(g) Sets
(i) Idea of sets, universal sets, finite and infinite sets, subsets, empty sets, and disjoint sets. Idea of and notation for union, intersection and complement of sets.
(ii) Solution of practical problems involving classification using Venn diagrams.
(h) Logical Reasoning
Simple statements. True and false statements. Negation of statements, implications.
(i) Positive and negative integers, rational numbers
The four basic operations on rational numbers.
Match rational numbers with points on the number line.
(j) Surds (Radicals)
Simplification and rationalisation of simple surds.
(k) Matrices and Determinants
(i) Identification of order, notation, and types of matrices.
(ii) Addition, subtraction, scalar multiplication, and multiplication of matrices.
(iii) Determinant of a matrix
(l) Ratio, Proportions, and Rates
Ratio between two similar quantities. The proportion between two or more similar quantities.
(m) Percentages
Simple interest, commission, discount, depreciation, profit and loss, compound interest, hire purchase, and percentage error.
( n) Financial Arithmetic
(i) Depreciation/Amortisation
(ii) Annuities
(iii) Capital Market Instruments
(o) Variation
Direct, inverse, partial, and joint variations.
B. ALGEBRAIC PROCESSES
(a) Algebraic expressions
(i) Formulating algebraic expressions from given situations
( ii ) Evaluation of algebraic expressions
(b) Simple operations on algebraic expressions
( i ) Expansion
(ii ) Factorisation
(iii) Binary Operations
(c) Solution of Linear Equations
(i) Linear equations in one variable
(ii) Simultaneous linear equations in two variables.
(d) Change of Subject of a Formula/Relation
(i) Change of subject of a formula/relation
(ii) Substitution.
(e) Quadratic Equations
(i) Solution of quadratic equations
(ii) Forming a quadratic equation with given roots.
(iii) Application of the solution of quadratic equation in practical problems.
(f) Graphs of Linear and Quadratic functions.
(i) Interpretation of graphs, coordinates of points, table of values, drawing quadratic graphs and obtaining roots from graphs.
( ii ) Graphical solution of a pair of equations of the form: y = ax\(^{2}\) + bx + c and y = mx + k
(iii) Drawing tangents to curves to determine the gradient at a given point.
(g) Linear Inequalities
(i) Solution of linear inequalities in one variable and representation on the number line.
(ii) Graphical solution of linear inequalities in two variables.
(iii) Graphical solution of simultaneous linear inequalities in two variables.
(h) Algebraic Fractions
Operations on algebraic fractions with:
(i) Monomial denominators
( ii ) Binomial denominators
(i) Functions and Relations
Types of Functions
C. MENSURATION
(a) Lengths and Perimeters
(i) Use of Pythagoras' theorem, sine and cosine rules to determine lengths and distances.
(ii) Lengths of arcs of circles, perimeters of sectors and segments.
(iii) Longitudes and Latitudes.
(b) Areas
(i) Triangles and special quadrilaterals
(ii) Circles, sectors and segments of circles.
(iii) Surface areas of cubes, cuboids, cylinders, pyramids, right triangular prisms, cones and spheres.
(c) Volumes
(i) Volumes of cubes, cuboids, cylinders, cones, right pyramids and spheres.
(ii) Volumes of similar solids
D. PLANE GEOMETRY
(a) Angles
(i) Angles at a point add up to 360°.
(ii) Adjacent angles on a straight line are supplementary.
(iii) Vertically opposite angles are equal.
(b) Angles and intercepts on parallel lines.
(i) Alternate angles are equal.
(ii)Corresponding angles are equal.
(iii)Interior opposite angles are supplementary
(iv) Intercept theorem.
(c) Triangles and Polygons.
(i) The sum of the angles of a triangle is 2 right angles.
(ii) The exterior angle of a triangle equals the sum of the two interior opposite angles.
(iii) Congruent triangles.
( iv ) Properties of special triangles
(v) Properties of special quadrilaterals
( vi )Properties of similar triangles.
( vii ) The sum of the angles of a polygon
(viii) Property of exterior angles of a polygon.
(ix) Parallelograms on the same base and between the same parallels are equal in area.
(d) Circles
(i) Chords.
(ii) The angle which an arc of a circle subtends at the centre of the circle...
(e) Construction
(i) Bisectors of angles and line segments
(ii) Line parallel or perpendicular to a given line.
(f) Loci
E. COORDINATE GEOMETRY OF STRAIGHT LINES
(i) Concept of the x-y plane.
(ii) Coordinates of points on the x-y plane.
F. TRIGONOMETRY
(a) Sine, Cosine and Tangent of an angle.
(b) Angles of elevation and depression
(c) Bearings
G. INTRODUCTORY CALCULUS
(i) Differentiation of algebraic functions.
(ii) Integration of simple Algebraic functions.
H. STATISTICS AND PROBABILITY.
( A ) Statistic
(i) Frequency distribution
( ii ) Pie charts, bar charts, histograms and frequency polygons
(iii) Mean, median and mode for both discrete and grouped data.
(iv) Cumulative frequency curve (Ogive).
(v) Measures of Dispersion
(b) Probability
(i) Experimental and theoretical probability.
(ii) Addition of probabilities for mutually exclusive and independent events.
(iii) Multiplication of probabilities for independent events.
I. VECTORS AND TRANSFORMATION
(a) Vectors in a Plane
(b) Transformation in the Cartesian Plane
